Is there any price put on research, for example,
for tenure or for any of the other? What is put on, I
think, is imposed by a professor's own
colleagues. Any decisions about tenure or
promotion are initiated in the department. I
think that's where the greatest pressure is put
on. I'm sure that if we sent regularly professors
who did not publish that the College of Education,
Dean Corrigan in particular, would be very, very
unhappy about it. But he's also taken the position
that research is not the only way that a professor
can excel, teaching is service. And so a minimum
amount of research, publication, coupled with a
great amount of service are great attention to
students. And for us, the biggest part of teaching
is not standing in the classroom at 25 or 30, the
greatest part is doctoral advisement. And that
also can play a role. And I think it's been very
successful in selling this to the university. And
yet, as I said, I don't think there ever has been a
lot of pressure to research. Research, in fact,
has expanded since when I first came within the
department. But I think part of the... research
has never been, the pressure has not been great, is
that perhaps engineering is sort of the
prototype of what A&M is all about, decreasingly
so. Engineering, professors have never done a lot
of research. In spite of the image, it's only a
minority of their professors really been engaged
in research. And a lot of them have done a lot of
service. They've done small research projects.
Not really any, the great majority are not
consequential things. And they don't publish
much at all. So I think that has taken some of the
pressure off. OK. That takes us in. And I would like
to just see if you have any either a highlight of
your 10 years of A&M, something that stands out in
your mind as something very special, or something
about what you feel maybe in these 10 years has been
your greatest contribution, and just an insight
or an anecdote or some observation that you've
made that would be, again, something that comes
from just your own inner feelings and wouldn't be
documented anywhere, just your own personal.
Well, yeah. No. I guess I'll be egocentric in my
response, too, because the thing of which
I'm most proud of and I feel best about is the
obviously powerful feeling of family and
collegiality that I think we've developed in the
Department of Educational Administration.
It's something I've worked at. I haven't been
alone in it, but the response has been great. And I
don't think we've ever had, well, I don't know of
any other department anywhere that has the same
amount of collegiality, not only among
professors, but among the graduate students,
between student professors, and even to include
the secretary of the classified staff. And I feel
very good about that and the way that that has
evolved and is evolving. Yeah, I thought
everybody was the same. Not having been exposed to
the other ones and having felt that camaraderie in
the group itself there, I thought that was part of
it. But that's good. Is there something you've
done that's special that has created that? You
said you work hard at it. What did you do to turn it
around if it wasn't there? Well, a couple of
things. Formal things is I have really stressed
and continue to stress the fact that professors
ought not to be in their own offices following only
their own agendas, developing only their own
excellence. But they also ought to be working on
joint projects. Several professors ought to be
working on the same project. They need to share.
They need to involve each other. I've also, in
pursuit of that, I've encouraged particular
professors, two or three, to work together on the
same thing or to bring another professor in. I've
also explicitly stated that I would like to see
more
involvement with the students in researching on
the really interesting things, more
collegiality, and more chance for dialogue.
I certainly haven't done this myself, but
certainly there have been other people, any other
professors who have been interested in this, and
my main contribution there has been to encourage
them. Stan Carpenter has come to build up the
collegiology he has among the students involved
in higher education. He needs to take primary
credit for that. The only credit I feel is that I can
take part in the green light and encourage them to
do it. I'll also stress another thing that this
department had in that, well, it was a very similar
thing. And I've never issued a statement on it, a
formal statement, that this is what had to be done.
Excuse me. Oh, OK. Thanks. Thank you, Alonzo.
That's OK.
I've encouraged them to use their graduate
assistants in really on the important things of
the department, their research, their writing,
et cetera, which they've done. And I've
discouraged them. I said, don't give the graduate
assistant all the experience of just doing
formalistic gopher kinds of stuff. And I would
say, when I came, that was probably the norm.
requirements for the graduate assistant. And I
think that's turned around very nicely. And I
think these graduate assistants aren't getting
paid enough in dollars. They ought to be getting
something a lot more out of it than just the money.
Very good. And in closing, is there anything that
you would like to share? Some little incident or
anecdote, anything that that, again, stands out
as something that you feel pretty good about that
has happened while you've been there, in or out of
the department or in a relationship with other
students, a particular student or a particular
event or something that... I would say
personally, you know, I was just sitting out from
the department to be expanded, I guess, both to my
interactions with students. Also, I think it also
could be expanded to college generally,
certainly I think one of the most rewarding
things, maybe the most rewarding thing since I've
been here is the tremendous number of good
doctoral students I've been privileged to work
with and some really good research that they've
done and gotten to know them and to understand them
and to help them along the way. The second thing
that was in that same vein is that I think It's just
been a real joy, just a very refreshing experience
to have Dean Corrigan here just to open up the
possibilities and encourage in so many areas.
I cannot imagine another individual whom we could
have selected for the position that would have
done a better job. And speaking, I guess, to my own
deficits as a As in personnel selection, of the
five we looked at, he wasn't my top choice of the
five. But I'm sure, in retrospect, that we could
have done it better. He would be now. There's no
question about it. You feel that, perhaps, he was
just the right person at the right time in the right
place. Yes. And I think it's worked out
beautifully. And because the college has grown so
much, I guess he has a hard time himself, just like
you said, between departments and keeping a close
contact. But I guess he does it for you all as
department heads to transmit this feeling. He
does. And I guess in some ways, I would say, I think
Oregon is looking as an administrator rather than
as a leader. Probably some of them are sloppy
administrators. He's not a very tidy
administrator. Uh, leaves a lot of loose ends, but
that, maybe that's good. Maybe that's good.
That's his style. Yeah, that's his style, and I
think that that's brought in, enabled some of the
graffiti to get back in that we, that we've been
lacking. A certain amount of that is needed in the
institution of higher education. So the College
of Education, you feel, is alive and well, and in
spite of all of the things that we're facing, which
a lot of the changes that are coming about through
the legislature and all will not have an adverse
effect, if anything? Well, they may have an
adverse effect, but it's not going to slow it down.
It's going to have to be some major internal change
in ways in order for it to be set back down.
External factors are not going to turn it around
now. Dr. Owens, I really appreciate you sharing
all of these perceptions of the past and the
present and the future. And certainly you have
contributed a great deal to the growth,
especially of the administration department And
I think the fact that the service is so prevalent in
the department that you chair is a source of
satisfaction because that's what education is,
is going after and serving. So I appreciate it, and
I will visit with you further. Okay, great.